>> Nina Zakharenko: In Python,
you can do comparisons.
You can compare items of the same type.
Someone in chat asked about comparing
items of different types for
the built-ins.
That doesn't necessarily make sense.
I'm not sure I can think of a case
where I would find that useful.
Once you kind of graduate and
move on to writing your own
advanced Python programs,
you can create your own objects and
define how you want them to
be compared with each other.
But you can't compare different types in
Python 3, it just doesn't make sense.
Okay, so for our comparisons,
we have a less than operator,
a greater than operator, so
just kinda like your simple math.
We have a less than or equals and
a greater than or equals.
And so these comparisons themselves,
they return a true or a false value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There's a little bit
of weirdness when you try to compare
strings.
The string comparison,
they're compared lexicographically.
That means by the ASCII value, the
underlying ASCII value of the character.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You don't really need
to know much about ASCII besides for
capital letters come
before lower case ones.
So you'll just have to remember
that in your sort order.
When you try to compare two strings,
each character is checked one by
one until a difference is found.
And then, that difference is returned.
And that kind of determines
the order under the hood.
So just remember that uppercase
letters are lower-valued in ASCII.
Okay, so is "t" < "T", it's not.
Just something to be aware of,
but then once you get past
the lowercase uppercase,
things kind of work as expected
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, so equality.
Equality is do the values and these two,
do these two values have
the same values within them?
So for an integer, that's pretty simple,
right, is one equal to one?
Yes, it is.
Is this string equal to this one?
It gets a little bit more complicated
when you're looking at more advanced
container types, right, so
these things are not equal to each other.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But these are.
If you have two variables that
you kinda created independently.
You can check and
see if they're equal to each other.
And then,
not equal is just the inverse of that.
And you do that with a !=.
So this will be false because a and
b do in fact contain equal values.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
someone mentioned earlier, they saw that
I used the is keyword to
check if something was none.
And so is means identity.
And it kind of frequently trips up Python
beginners, so you wanna make sure that
equality, is double equals,
and not equals.
And then identity is the is keyword.
>> Nina Zakharenko: As a beginner,
besides for comparing non-true or false,
kind of those built in singletons.
You're not gonna be using
the is keyword very often.
Because that QR test if the two
compared objects are stored at
the same memory location,
if they point to the same thing.
I'm not gonna go into too
much detail why about this.
Just remember to use.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's say x = None.
Checking for the is keyword when trying
to find out is this variable True,
False, None.
If we look at our list again,
I created them in two separate instances.
If I ask, a is b.
I know a is equal to b, there is equality.
If I ask, a is b,
what do you think I'll get?
>> Class: False.
>> Nina Zakharenko: False, they're not
stored at the same memory location,
even though they are equal to each other.
So just an important
distinction to remember.
And there's also the not modifier.
So if I'm checking if, let's see.
Let's say, a = None.
If I want to know if a = None,
I can check that.
If I want the opposite of this, remember
with equality it was the exclamation point
and equals, so the not of is, is not.
a is not None, well, that's False because
it's None, so just remember this order.
The good thing I like about Python
is it's really readable and
almost sounds like English, right?